---
layout: post
title: "Meddle"
sub_title: "Pink Floyd"
date: 2013-06-21 11:51
issues: [11]
order: 4
author: "Jon Mitchell"
image: /images/11/meddle.jpg
post_type: text
meta_description: 
story_intro: "Released October 30, 1971. Recorded in London. Pink Floyd’s sixth record."
---
THUD THUD THUD THUD THUD THUD THUD THUD. That’s when *Meddle* starts. It’s not when the pioneering use of delay on a rock instrument starts, and it’s not when that scary, tape-reversed chord thing hits. It’s two minutes in, when the guitar gets scared, and then the bass drum kicks the door right out of the frame. It doesn’t even care about this looped beat, which is new and alien. These drums without time are even more menacing.

When they start off in earnest, Pink Floyd downshifts back into being a rock band for now. They have to. They know that the Weird Zone — the Uncanny Valley between the familiar and the alien where music works on us — is 101-125% weird. They know that technology is for augmenting reality, not for escaping it altogether.

“I don’t think the equipment could take over,” Roger Waters says in the first interview section of the *Live at Pompeii* film. “I mean, we couldn’t do what we do as we do it without it. But always things are down to how you control them and whether you are controlling them and not the other way round.”

So the calm second track, “A Pillow Of Winds,” is a relief. This is where you hear how beautiful this record sounds. It’s recorded so clearly. *Meddle* doesn’t have the intense orchestration that *Dark Side* — two records later — had. So on this predecessor to that world-changing record, you can hear just how good these guys’ ears were.

“Fearless” recalls Floyd’s first era with madcap lyrics reminiscent of Syd. It runs, then it soars, then it dives. That chanting crowd at the end is the most terrifying thing I’ve ever heard. “St. Tropez” remembers the ’60s, but now it’s aware of the darkness. Welcome to life, flower children.

Everyone in the white rock bands of the ’60s and ’70s thought they could play the blues. Some of them even named their bands after the blues, like Pink Floyd. But the heaviest bluesman in all of psychedelic rock was Pink Floyd’s dog. His namesake, “Seamus,” is the most down-to-earth thing on *Meddle*, and the dog sings along to the whole damn thing.

And the record ends with “Echoes,” often cited as the example of what early-’70s Pink Floyd was like. The bass-driven breakdown and guitar solo of this song is my favorite period of Pink Floyd music overall. The funk is thick. The guitar is insane. You lose it, and then they lose it, and then we’re plunged into some wormhole. You space-warp through it, and you can hear that it’s true Waters meant what he said about the technology:

> “It’s all extensions of what’s coming out of our heads. You’ve got to have it inside your head in order to be able to get it out at all, anyway. The equipment isn’t actually thinking of what to do. It couldn’t control itself.”

They know what they’re doing. They know where you’re going. You don’t, and they don’t want you to. Just go with them.

Suddenly, the song is back. It’s now. But last time. It’s last time now happened exactly like this. It never happened.