---
layout: post
title: "Guitar, guitar"
sub_title: "Trashing hotel rooms like a rockstar since 1990"
date: 2013-07-23 14:34
issues: [12]
order: 2
author: "Richard Mitchell"
image: /images/12/guitar.jpg
post_type: text
meta_description: 
story_intro: "<strong>IT WAS SOMETIME</strong> in the spring of 1990. We took a little trip to the North Carolina mountains as a last family getaway before the baby who would be known as Sam was born."
---
Our good friends, Lisa and Jeff, and their young son, Daniel, joined Susan, Jon, and me.

Jon was almost three years old at the time. I had been playing rock & roll music to him since he was born. He had numerous cassettes that he would fall asleep to full of The Who, The Beatles, Pink Floyd and all the other musical heroes of my youth. He had one tape I made him that was all “train songs” since his other obsession was, well, trains. So “Big Train From Memphis” by John Fogerty, “Locomotive Breath” by Jethro Tull, and “Casey Jones” by the Dead (yes, I was a bad parent) became part of his nightly soundtrack. We sang a duet of “My Generation,” immortalized on home video, which we later reprised in the parent-teacher talent show when he was a high school senior.

Maybe as a result of that, or just some innate desire and love for music, Jon became obsessed with guitars. He played air guitar (left handed à la Jimi Hendrix and Ziggy Stardust) with a little toy guitar he had, jumping around and declaring “I'm Pete Townshend!” His favorite “instrument” for his musical forays was a guitar-shaped lint brush which, of course, became known as the “lint brush guitar,” and went with us to many restaurants and on other forays.

Jeff has played guitar for many years and brought his acoustic on our trip. We stayed in a couple of little cabin-like rooms at a hotel in Cashiers. Jon was awestruck and hypnotized watching Jeff play during the afternoon and evening. As Jeff was playing, I set up Jon’s porta-crib (portal crib?) in our room, so we could put him to bed. Since we were sitting in front of our cabin, Jeff put his guitar in the case and stuck it in our room near the porta-crib.

As it got later, and we thought Jon might be fading, we put him in the crib with his “blankie” and went back outside with Lisa and Jeff, sitting near the door in case Jon woke up or needed us. After about 20 minutes of hanging out, we heard Jon beginning to stir in the room. Then, as he often did while alone in his crib, he began chatting to himself. Only this time all he was say was “guitar, guitar, see it, see it.” He reminded me of [Gollum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gollum) looking for his “Precious.”

We thought it was very cute and were giggling amongst ourselves. Then he got louder and more energized. “Guitar. Guitar. See it. See it.” Then “See it” changed to “Want it.” “Want it” got louder and more repetitive, when suddenly **BOOM** and then “Waaaaaah!”

We ran in to find Jon laying prostrate on the floor next to the guitar case. He had somehow managed to scale the side of the porta-crib, which was twice as tall as he was, and while reaching for the guitar, flipped over and landed on the floor. Luckily, he was unscathed, and his love for the guitar continued to grow, especially once he got his first guitar, a red Stratocaster (because most of my favorite players played Strats).