---
layout: post
title: "Horses"
sub_title: "Patti Smith"
date: 2013-06-21 11:52
issues: [11]
order: 5
author: "Jon Mitchell"
image: /images/11/horses.jpg
post_type: text
meta_description: 
story_intro: "Released December 13, 1975. Recorded in New York City. Patti Smith’s first record."
---
I’ll never say anything about this record that’s as clear as what it says about itself. I’ll tell you what I noticed about the music, but then I’ll tell you what this record says about my generation and me.

The band is ill. They are punishingly awesome. They’d better be. Otherwise, she will punish them.

The perspective is so clear. It’s a window. Her voice is a mind-wrap. It’s the scenes. She’s making us use her eyes.

“Birdland”: Aliens, not human. This is where you lose her if you don’t hang on. “Take me up! I’m goin’ up!” She’s going with the aliens. You coming? Shadda doo wop.

“Free Money” is burning. It starts so sadly. So real and sad. But when you hear her say “Oh, baby. It would mean so much to me,” then you know what she means.

“Break It Up” is the heaviest song on the record. In one verse, you can hear her drumming on her chest while she sings.

“Land” starts with a massive beating. I ask you: What is scary about, say, Black Sabbath, compared to Patti Smith putting her hand inside someone’s cranium? Yeah, it drags on. How could it not? Turns out it’s all just about a “simple rock and roll song,” anyway.

“Elegie.” No sneer here except the grand one saved for the universe itself. “Trumpets and violins I hear them in the distance.” Is that a Hendrix reference? Yes. The record was done in Electric Lady Studios, and Smith says she imagined him watching her.

No one ever played me this record. I heard it for the first time when I was nearly 26 years old. An important friend of mine told me to put it on a few weeks ago, while I was beginning my research for the [top 5 rock records of all time](/issue/11). I listened to it once, then immediately listened again. I was FREAKING out like a teenager, dancing around my bedroom. My top 5 list was fucked.

In the middle of my third listen in a row, I had to go to band practice. As soon as my bandmate, Rebecca, got in the car, she said, “Uh, is this Patti Smith?” Yeah, I replied, but she already knew. “I just heard this record for the first time in my life today.”

How we both got to the middle of our 20s as musicians without hearing *Horses*, I don’t know. How we found it on the exact same *day*, let’s not even go there.

All I can say about my own oversight is this:

I was born in 1987 and grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. That’s the most important factor in the way I hear rock music. That’s because my father was born in 1956 and grew up in Mobile, Alabama. Neither one of us knows much about New York City.

I learned about punk rock from friends, not from my dad. His pain music is the blues. His version of “My Generation” is the original, and, therefore, so is mine. We’ve got a recording of singing it together when I was a baby, and we’ve got one of playing it on stage together when I was a teenager.

When I heard Patti Smith and her band tear it to pieces at the end of *Horses*, I was reset. “We created it,” she shouts at the crowd. “Let’s take it over.”

My dad doesn’t like her version.

We listened to “My Generation” on the way to band practice, and then we played it ourselves. After that, Rebecca wrote her first rock song ever, conducting the whole band.